******************************************
TEAM - THE 2!
MEMBERS - NIKITHA, SAVITAA
PROJECT TITLE - I.M.R.E
INTELLIGENT MOVIE RECOMMENDATION ENGINE
******************************************

TO RUN THE CODE AND THE UI
---------------------------

* From the Git repo(bigdata), kindly download the folder bigdata(git clone ssh -> downlods a folder named bigdata) , it consists of four main folders(Dataset, Trials, PowerBI and images), the code (rest of the content other than these 4 folders have the code and its required files), dataset and the UI, each consisting of the
files required and used in our project.

* The bigdata folder consists of the following files recommender.py, load_data.py, analytics.py, homepage.html and reports.html which are the important files along with other files used.

* To run the project locally, use the below mentioned command

  time spark-submit Recommender.py movies.csv ratings.csv keyword

  movies.csv and ratings.csv - input files (present in Dataset folder)
  keyword - movie name (part of the name/ full name/ anything related to the movie)

  The recommendations are displayed (the recommendations are displayed in the terminal itself (8 outputs for initial recommendations based on 8 major genres and the final output gives us the top 10 movies based on user's input movie name) and are saved as csv files).

* To run the analytics engine (homepage.html), we need a webserver-> create a webserver to host our page locally by navigating to the folder where homepage.html, reports.html(and its associated input files) are present and give command-> python -m http.server from command prompt, then open-> http://localhost:8000/ , now our server is up, you can see all files in the directory. click on homepage.html

* To check our website and analytics, click on the "homepage.html" (after above step) and make sure the images are in the images folder and the css "w3.css" is in the same folder as homepage.html, to run it.

* From homepage.html, one can navigate to reports.html (and vice versa) where you can see 6 different analytics (dynamic, responsive and lightning quick analytics for 20million+ record data- Its scalable!!) based on movies, production units and users mainly.

* reports.html's analytics is powered by 'analytics.py' and plotly.js combindly. First, we have to run analytics.py to generate csv files which are then taken as input by our plotly.js (reads those csv files) to generate real-time interactiv plots. Make sure the files generated by analytics.py (several folders will be generated) are in the same folder as the reports.html file.
Finally, to run analytics.py-> time spark-submit analytics.py Dataset.csv (Dataset.csv file can be found in Dataset folder).

* To aggregate data and save them as csv, run the below mentioned command

spark-submit load_data_to_csv.py


TO CHECK AND VIEW THE DATABASE
------------------------------

* Connect to Cluster and connect to Cassandra using the below command

cqlsh --cqlversion=3.4.2 199.60.17.188

* To use the keyspace created for our project, use

use imre;

* Two tables are created for our use, to access or view them use either of them,

To view table structure
-----------------------
desc imre_movies_repo;
desc imre_tags;

To view table data
------------------
select * from imre_movies_repo;
select * from imre_tags;

The Tables are

 * imre_movies_repo
 * imre_tags

TO VIEW THE POWER BI OUTPUT
---------------------------

* The PowerBI generated reports are attached as PowerBI files to view them, kindly install PowerBI from the below mentioned link

https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/downloads/

* Then open the above mentioned file and view the reports. The file to be downloaded is as part of the Power BI file and the filename is IMRE.pbix

* We just tried working with PowerBI, our analytics was also done using plotly on D3.js and can be viewed under the Reports section of
our Website.
